# CSE305


### Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
- Aretemis Financial is a international financial consulting firm that required software updates to their platform in order to better secure their customer data and other proprietary information. By addressing these aspects of their code-base, their goal was to have a secure and safe environment for their customers to interact with; including the confidence that their data will be secured and not vulnerable to exploitation.
  
### What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
- I think that what I did well when identifying the client's software vulnerabilities was in explaining what I had found in a mannor with which a non-software savvy individual could understand what the issue is. It is important in a domain such as this that one can explain to non-technical experts within the organization what has been found and what the fix actions are so that they may explain to others and have a good understanding of what the whole team is up to. It is important to code securely because it is the most effective way to keep user data safe and to prevent exploitation of one's software, be that the individual or a whole company. Regardless of the scope of a project, there are parts of the software, usually data, or things such as the key for a cipher, that must be protected. The obvious value in software security to a company is that they are able to more effectively keep proprietary information secure, but it also can help to bolster a company's reputation for security and thus give a positive impression to the customer base/users of the company's products.
  
### What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
- There was a few different aspects of the vulnerability assessment that I found challenging. For the most part, my biggest difficulty was in my inexperience with secure coding practices, which meant that I ended up spending a lot of time doing research and attempting to understand where the vulnerabilities may lie and how to effectively identify them. Aides such as the Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow diagram were invaluable in giving me a step-by-step reference point to examine the code-base.

### How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
- I increased the layers of security by implementing the proper fix actions for the vulnerabilities identified in the code base. the biggest of these was the implementation of a cipher for the REST API, which helped to secure requests going to and from the server. The production of a signed certificate also allowed for me to utilize secure connection practices. In the future, I imagine that I will be using a similar workflow in identifying issues. It will be a bit easier now as I have a better understanding of where the vulnerabilities in a codebase tend to lie, but there will likely be a lot of research in conjunction with security tools such as the dependency vulnerability checks that we ran throughout this course.
  
### How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
- To test for functionality and security, I began by first running the code itself and testing the features. This allowed me to quickly identify that the code is functioning properly. To test for new vulnerabilities, I ran the same dependency check reports again with the refactored code. Addtional measures could be taken in the future through the use of software tests and other industry practices that are common such as code review from peers in order to get more eyes on the code and thus have potentially more ideas for mitigation techniques to be implemented.

### What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
- All of the different security tests will be invaluable in the development of future projects, be it in an education environment or in the workplace. Ensuring the use of industry-standard practices in future coding assignments and tasks will give me more familiarity with these practices which will better prepare me for the day in which the implementation of such is a requirement rather than a suggestion or learning opportunity.
  
### Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
- Future employers may be interested in the work done during this course in that it showcases my ability to understand secure coding practices and to implement them into existing codebases, which is more than likely what the majority of the work I will be doing will be on. This is a good way to show them that I have experience with this aspect of coding and understand how to structure a secure coding workflow into the SDLC.
